>> Nina: Using the REPL.
For Introduction to Python,
we worked exclusively in the REPL.
For Intermediate Python,
we're gonna be working in both
the REPL and in Python files.
REPL stands for Read Evaluate Print Loop.
It's the interactive Python interpreter
that lets us type commands in and
quickly see the output.
>> Nina: Unlike running
your Python code on a file,
you also don't necessarily need to
display any output in a print statement.
You can just type in
the name of the variable and
the REPL will show you its value.
This is really great for
quick prototyping, debugging.
As a python developer,
I've worked in python for six years,
I still have REPL open daily so
that I can experiment with my code,
look at documentation very quickly etc.
So in the VS Code to open the REPL,
we're gonna go to VS Code,
use the keyword shortcut for
our command power for Mac,
that's command Shift P and
we're gonna select Start REPL.
>> Nina: And
that should open REPL here at the bottom.
>> Nina: Now I think that you know
the best way to learn a language,
the best way to learn anything is
just typing along Muscle memory.
So I recommend that as I'm coding,
and as I'm showing concepts, and
as I'm experimenting that all of the
students follow along in the REPL live.
That's how you'll get the most
value out of this class.
Just a quick tour of the REPL.
These three arrows here means it's
a prompt, it's ready for input.
So I can type stuff in here.
If I just type the name of
a variable I'll see the output.
If I start a if statement for
example I'll see these three dots here,
and that means that the REPL
is awaiting more input.
So here I would have to provide
a level of indentation, and
say the rest of my statements.
As you notice in an if statement,
the first time I press enter when I'm done
with my code block I still see these
three dots, still waiting for input.
So in the REPL we'll have to press Enter
just one more time to make sure that
this command is executed successfully,
great.
Throughout the course,
you will see code that looks like this.
If you see these right arrows
here on this label that says,
PYTHON REPL, that means that
the file was run in the REPL.
Otherwise you'll see Python file, and that
means run this code from a Python file.
You can copy and
paste my Python REPL code,
maybe occasionally you'll
see a little bit of a blip.
And then you can paste
it right into your REPL.
You'll just have to hit Enter
to run the last command,
that's how I make sure that you're awake.
>> Nina: Okay,
these three most important commands for
the REPL are type(), dir(), and help().
So if I'm not sure about the type of
something I can call the built-in
type class and pass in my variable,
it'll let me know that a was of class int.
>> Nina: Let's say I have a string here.
If I want to know all of the methods
available on string cuz we're not Google.
As programmers,
we don't have to memorize these things.
I can use the built in dir
function here in pass in a class.
So very quickly if I look for
the type of name Type of name oops.
I'm so sorry I cannot type this morning.
So I'm pressing Control+C to kind of
exit the statement if I make a mistake.
So type of name is str.
I can do dir on str.
That's the class right here.
And that will show me all of the methods
available on the string class.
The ones that we care about are the ones
that don't start with the underscores or
double double underscores.
You can kind of consider
those to be private methods.
And let's say I don't
remember what upper does.
This is where help comes in so
I can pass in either a whole type to help
and it'll show me all of the help for
all of the methods or
if I just want to zoom in on a particular
function here I could do str,
and then I would just type the name
of the method that I'm interested in.
No additional parentheses here or
anything, and this will bring up help.
A little bit of documentation, it will
show me what arguments are required,
if any, and usually a helpful message,
sometimes not so much.
To exit out of the screen just hit Q.
Okay, so that's the tour of the REPL,
I recommend everybody has one open.
>> Nina: So, running code we'll be
working with a mix of The REPL and
Python files in day two.
New Python files have a .py extension.
To create them,
just hit Command and or Control+N,
depending on your operating system.
And then you'll have to save that
file as a .py file in order for
VS Code to recognize that
it's working with Python.
Once you do that,
you should see syntax highlighting,
you should see Linting if
you installed your Linter.
You'll have autocomplete, a lot of
kinda really nice helpful things there.
So you don't have to follow along here but
if I'm make a new file, and
I print out paste in this
from the class website well
it's all white, right?
And I'm not seeing any
syntax highlighting.
So what I have to do is
save that file as hello.py,
I see all my syntax highlighting.
To run this file very quickly and
easily using the correct interpreter
You would have to open your command
palette, Cmd+Shift+P, python.
Run Python File in Terminal.
>> Nina: Easy peasy.
>> Nina: Lastly, the VS Code terminal
window, it'll automatically pop up
if you start the REPL from the Python
file from the command palette.
To quickly open and close the REPL on
Mac it's Control and and back tick.
>> Nina: As we see here on Windows I
believe it's Control and single quote.
That will open and close the REPL for you.
An important thing to know about the REPL
if you click here in this drop down box,
these are all your different if
important thing about the terminal.
If you click here in this drop
down box you'll see tabs for
all your different terminology.
You'll have your REPL here your,
Python, maybe a shell and
this is how you can switch between them.
>> Nina: Okay that's
the whirlwind tour of VS Code.